hello everybody
i'm brian also vp of sales at saster and
welcome to the cutting edge the place to
find the best and most update tactics
and tricks to help your sales team
stand out today i am pleased to welcome
my friend kevin dorsey from patient pop
to the conversation
welcome k.d my man you do you know i'm
excited to be here with you starting the
day off with my dude brian
let's go baby i'm ready let's rock and
roll katie do me a favor why don't we
take a minute just introduce yourself to
those that like you know lived under a
rock and have no idea who you are
i mean not people shouldn't know who who
i am i am i am nothing special i am a
man i'm a brother i'm a father i am a
son um you know lovely lovely wife two
daughters lily and luisa i'm the vp of
inside sales at
patientpop um you know so i leave the
sdr and
inside closing org there and honestly
man like i'm just
i think i try to view myself as a
teacher and a coach right you know like
i really try to share what i'm learning
i'm sharing my flaws i share my failures
as much as i share
the things that work and really just
kind of sharing the journey as i go
so that's who i am man i'm a student of
this game i'm passionate about it i'm
talking about sales i'm passionate about
people
and i think that's why i think you and i
connect so well because i think we share
very similar passions
i couldn't agree with you more my friend
i couldn't agree with you more i think
that's exactly right and i think that um
you know you've done an incredible job
even just you know
as someone that i look up to i've
watched a lot what you put out there and
the content you produce and
that sharing element that caring element
is just huge and i know that's a big
piece right now so
uh so dude i'm excited to chat with you
today and get into a little bit of the
the meat and potatoes here you know the
conversation
the cutting edge it's like what do sales
cutting edge sales teams need to know in
order to be seen as trusted
or stand out so there's our theme maybe
we want to dive in where are we going
today
oh boy okay so trust let's start trust
start with trust
right so there's this there's this old
quote
said people don't care how much you know
they want to know how much you care
and you know it gets thrown out there
and people love to rah-rah around it
like yeah
see it's not about what you know well i
think they forget
how the rest of that quote needs to play
out people
don't care how much you know they want
to know how much you care
the only way you can share how much you
care is by sharing what you know
that's the only way you can't just sit
there right
like the way you show that you cares by
show sharing what you
know that can help them
and that's where people are still
missing so much
in sales is it's not truly coming from a
place of helping
the prospect right because most sales
people don't even understand the
problems that their product
solves right so if we're talking about
how to build trust
the ways you build trust is that the
person feels
known that is like like we got to be
honest here like
as a salesperson we already are coming
from you know
call behind the eight ball of it we're a
sales person no matter how much we
say we care do you think the prospect
sits there and goes
oh thank god i thought you were one of
those sales people
didn't care but you just told me that
you cares you're here for me
that doesn't do it people feel trust
when they go okay i feel hurt
i feel understood and then what's being
offered to me is
actually helping me get what i want
that's how you build
trust right and i think that's something
a lot of people are
missing and we'll talk about where this
goes next with trust as
as well you know real quick do you think
uh you know
a person feeling known is easier right
now or harder
oh man it's so much easier so like there
again
people have talked about how like the
the buyer has changed right the buyer
has changed so much they have access to
so much more information now than they
did before
which is true so does salespeople
we just don't leverage it it is not
that hard to learn the inner workings
and inner days of your prospects
either because that information is out
there too
right i was talking to a company the the
other day that sells into hr
i used to sell into hr right and so i
said all right how many of you subscribe
to sherm
have you subscribed to sure they're like
uh
sure i'm like how many of you are
members of the human resources
association on linkedin how many
of you have signed up for the employee
engagement podcast and employee wellness
podcast how many of you have read the
book culture at work and how work works
like
there is so much information yeah you
can learn about the
prospect that we don't do like where
people have taken this idea of
personalization and it only focuses on
the person which is great but you need
to know the problems that person
has and if you know their role getting
information on what are the biggest
struggles of that role
is out there too yeah right and we as
sales people don't tend to leverage that
nearly enough we lead with the product
and that's all we got
yeah and i think that's a major problem
too right because we when the second we
stop
listening we stop asking questions
that's and we want to go into our pitch
we've already shut it off we're we're
not even there
right so i i it's curious too cause the
cloud's exploding right now right so
i'm gonna take this little bit of a
direction but the cloud's exploding
right now we have a lot of new companies
coming out with a lot of major money
that's that's being dropped right so
there's major expansion happening with
new teams
you know new teams can mean a lot of
people that are maybe even new to our
profession so i'm curious like
in thinking about um the person is
changing the buyer has
changed the sales person has changed
like
how do we even find a process for each
of those to help those teams feel like
they're successful
so it's it's looking at the flip side of
it right so
jeff bezos gave an interview i think
this might be like eight nine years ago
now
i talk about it enough i should probably
just go find it like put it on on my
linkedin or something but
they asked him a question along the
lines of like you know how how do you
innovate so well like how does amazon
stay ahead of the game and kind of see
what's coming and like
change before other people change and
his response was
so great and like it's just it's
phenomenal his response back was
well really we pay attention to what's
not going to change
and then that's where we try to innovate
right he goes
so what's not what we do what's not
going to change are people ever going to
want slower delivery
no are people ever going to want to pay
more for a product
no are people ever going to want to
trust the product less
no right it's like these are things that
aren't going to change and so that's
where we drive our you know we can't
predict the future but we can't say what
isn't going to change
and so i think that correlates over to
buyers and sellers like
their tools are changing the environment
is changing let's talk about what
hasn't changed about people
because that's who we're selling to and
that's who's doing the selling
yeah okay what do most people crave more
security or return
which do they crave more security or
return
return security security it's security
yeah right
because the we are risk averse as a
species
we are that's kept us alive status whoa
you don't want to change the status quo
right so we know that we know that but
so much pitching is about the future
right it's not about the status quo and
the now what else
isn't going to change people want to
know if the product is going to work
yup is that going to change no
and it's information overload right now
right like we're putting more out there
on our products than ever before
you're seeing even the demo world right
just explode with new tech
that gets all the new product out in
front and
put in front of the information
information
is not proof and information
is not experienced right if information
was experienced i could just tell you
about a vacation
and be like oh that was nice
i just went on a vacation you have to
exp so again let's think about that
is that going to change are buyers going
to not want to know if something's going
to work
for them no but that's not how the sales
process is being
built are buyers going to want to ever
pay more for something
not really unless they know the return
is going to be there how are they going
to know the return is be there is they
experience it right
and then look at sales people same idea
sales people
are people which we tend to i think
forget
we we we dangle that carrot in front of
them all day long
right like this idea that sales people
are coin operated
is not true and even if it was
even if it was people seem to have
forgotten how a coin operated machine
works
yeah if i walk up to a gumball machine
do i turn the knob get the gumball and
then put the coin in
what comes first right it'd be nice it'd
be nice if it worked that way right
it would but what how does a coin
operated machine gotta have the coin in
you gotta
the coin goes first that's not how we
pay our sales people
so then we wonder why sales people come
across as pushy
or aggressive or commissioned breath is
because that's
the culture that we've created and so i
think i'm trying to also pay attention
to what's not going to change
about people and then that's where you
start to innovate
the process more yeah to allow those
things to actually come through you're
talking you're talking about humanism
right like you're you're talking about
bringing you know just regular
everyday conversation back into what
we've turned into sales conversation
it's like yo
there's no sales conversation in
non-conference in non-sales
conversations there's just conversation
that's all there is
it's when we make it salesy that it goes
bad right like i don't know if this is
going to be a video or not but i have
this sales hat behind me
right right i don't have the sales hat
to put on i actually use it as an
example of to take
off take off your sales hack for a
second talk like a damn human
being right because this is where people
like you know
my sales people and definitely sales
leaders should really study more like
consumer psychology economics right how
people buy because we are not logical
buyers
and sales still tries to take this very
logical approach to things
learn how people actually buy in the
real world simple enough
pay attention to how you buy okay if you
go on amazon to buy a sponge
a sponge would you buy one that has
low reviews no of course not
you you wouldn't what do you read then
when you go to the reviews right when
you go to the reviews do you only read
the five star reviews
you got to read them all man you got to
read the most you got to read them all
you know what's interesting about
reviews if there's only positive people
don't believe them as
right so what do but what do product
companies do and teams do
all their case studies are what positive
perfect yep so then people don't
believe right right so like that people
don't just pay attention how people
buy things right because again like
these are going to be the buyers and
this is when it is going to get
very interesting over the next five to
10 years when then you
truly have millennial and gen z
in buyer positions of course yeah of
course and that's
that's already starting right it's
already happened and and
you know um that for those that aren't
on
on that are those that are listening to
this and maybe unaware i mean that
there's a lot of extra emotion
added into those extra generations so
the emotional purchase is even
more prevalent how does more information
about a brand or a product
influence emotion ooh so there's two
different things there
uh actually i'll make this easy
information on a brand and a product
rarely evokes emotion information about
people does
right and this is why every ceo should
be the
face of their company people will attach
to that i think i just saw a post the
other day like how many followers
bezos has versus amazon elon
versus tesla gates versus
i saw that post too it's up on linkedin
right yeah yeah i think it was on
linkedin um
like so like people follow people that's
where emotion comes from
but then also too when people look at
what they're posting about their
products for their company
it's so watered down it's like the
opposite likes people are
so afraid of creating emotion
that they just water it down actually
shoot like we can do this live
i'm just going to jump i'm going to jump
off i'm going to find i'm gonna find a
product
here we go here we go okay adaptive is
the new agile this forester report learn
why adaptive mindset is critical for
teams to drive speed and growth
what emotion does that evoke i didn't
i'm not that emotional yet
nothing nothing at all your sas can roar
with usage-based pricing but is your
sales operation ready for ubp
learn more on our guide any emotion
there
oh really right like people like there's
no emotion in any of this right and so
if people paused for every post
every product every case study every
infographic and said how do i want this
to make people feel
the messaging would get better yeah
right but they they don't right like and
that's
information doesn't do it it's not
enough right i think you and i talked
about this a while back
information used to be why sales people
existed
you wouldn't know what was out there
without a sales person
yep correct we were the information
conduits we
blocked the information to the market so
we were the ones
that's right well then then information
started to get a little bit more
commoditized
right so then we were about the why well
here's why
you need this right you know what it is
here's
why you need it yep i think the next big
shift is now to the
how right the what is out there
the why the buyer is in a lot of ways
convincing themselves of
yep here's how it will actually work for
you
yep that's that's the next step and
sales teams and people are still too
focused on
the what they still don't even do the
why enough and they're sure as hell not
getting into the how enough
because also too this makes it hard most
sales people don't use their own product
yeah so how can they be a how expert
when they don't even use it
it's a great point it's a really great
point right
um i love that man i i want to
i know we have limited time i want to
take this one other direction that you
weren't anticipating today
because because i i think there's been a
lot of over especially over the past
year with um with everyone remote
there's been an
i would say added i don't know if you
feel this way too but at least from my
perspective there's been this
added pressure or even um expectation of
personal brand and influence
and uh as someone kd who has built an
enormous personal brand
and done so in just a really um
unique and authentic way i'm curious
right so
what thoughts do you have about the
development of personal brand and sales
and
i think like my question is when do you
think it starts diluting
oh it's already happening it's already
happening
because you have a lot of people that
are
doing it without a reason that's the
wrong reasons right right
most of them like why are building a
brand well because people said to build
a brand or i
want a brand and they're not doing it
for the right reasons and they're not
doing it with intention
right most like it's so funny man
very rarely do i get asked why
i built the brand i get asked a lot
about how to do it
very few people have asked well why did
i do this right and it was
access i wanted access to people
i wanted access to people smarter than
me for help and i wanted access to
people to work from and i felt if people
kind of had a feel for who i was
it would attract the right type of
person
into my world and into my tribe on the
flip side if i
didn't know how to do something if i had
access to people smarter than me
i could learn faster right like i could
learn faster and be in that position
when people are building brands for
exposure or building brands because they
think it'll help them sell
better it can but that's not what people
are building brands around
right you have so many people especially
sales people
trying to build salesperson brands
everyone out there right now is trying
to be a goddamn expert
everybody right and it's like we can't
all be
experts in this right like and so that's
that's where i think it gets very
diluted so funny enough and we're
talking today i made my first post this
morning in three weeks
wow and this is coming from someone who
was posted daily from yeah you're
posting for a long time yeah
100 i took a break man i stepped
back because i was feeling that but then
also when i take some of these breaks i
step back and i try to view
linkedin as a user not as a not as a
producer and i'm looking i'm going
jesus like
man this is garbage out here right like
how do how would someone stand out what
do i do to continue to provide value
because it's all getting watered down
and then you even start to see some of
this pushback
on like influencers right where it's
like just because
people have a following they're like oh
no that person doesn't know what they're
doing
like you don't know me well i mean well
here's my question right though so going
back to how the buyer has changed
the sales person has changed there's
been some element at least that i've
seen even my in my own side of this of
you know uh people reaching out to me to
engage with me
on things that i've been you know
representing simply because of
whatever has been put out there so would
you say that having a strong personal
brand has a direct tie that their
ability as a sales but not ability as a
salesperson
but uh their ability to reach their
market yes
but most people aren't going where their
market is
um okay i just gave a presentation on
this the other day like i've
called it bubba bass i get to make up
terms now because that's what i do
right and babas stands for brand
building as a skill okay
okay if you know how to actually build a
brand as a skill
you will be incredibly successful in
whatever career if i had to start over
from scratch in a new market a new world
i know exactly how i would
do it and it may not be on linkedin
right if you're selling to it
linkedin probably isn't where to build
your brand if you're selling
into hr it may not be the place to build
your brand
people are focusing on building a brand
on linkedin they're not focusing on
building a brand right yes can it open
doors for you
absolutely it can't 100
but you got to go where the people are
right so i walked through exactly what i
would do if i was starting
all over again give me any market any
market any prospect
exactly what i would do to build up a
brand again
in that market right it would take
probably six to nine months to get
momentum and after that
it's underway it's there and it's
rolling it's a skill set so i do believe
it needs to be done i think it's very
important
you gotta do it for the right reasons
and you gotta do it in the right place
dude
this is this has been so solid so let's
just let's just summarize this with one
thing so
um how about we do three key takeaways
and a piece of advice you want to throw
that out there
for for the audience today yes yes all
right
so let's three key takeaways let's talk
about trust okay
the first part is you have to
proactively build trust by showing you
understand
the prospect and part of that too
is knowing what's out there about you
people are looking up the reviews on
your company right that's the beauty of
all these communities
right disaster rev collective sales pros
are these these communities where people
are talking about you
with you not involved so you need
to be proactive around those things and
truly build trust by showing you
understand their world and how the
product can help them if you can't help
them
walk away from the deal the second
is pay attention to how people act and
buy
if you wouldn't buy the way you are
selling
that should tell you everything
how do people like to buy things pay
attention to that and try to build that
into your
process and the last part i'll talk
about here is the process is
we need to be better with the how you
need to be better with the how
how does your product solve the problem
how would the prospect use
if you can get their hands on it the
earlier the better
and here's like a bonus tip for y'all
the people that know the how
best on your product are the customers
get them involved way earlier
way earlier because they can speak to
the how
better than any salesperson will ever be
able to
right so that how is what really is
starting to to matter now
so those are the top three takeaways and
the last piece was advice
mm-hmm oh advice about what there's just
there's something no you got a piece of
it
let's go man throw down what's top of
mind for kd
right now in the advice world here
here's
here's where i'll go with advice and
it'll have you know kind of
trickle down into a lot of things but
take
your life and your job serious
but have fun like take your job serious
i'm gonna start with that and you know
it's your job it's your career
especially if you're in sales and this
can make you
multiple multiple six figures a year
yep but sales people don't read books
sales people don't like to practice
sales people don't always hit their
activity
sales people will not like dedicate
themselves to their prospects world and
signing up for all the things that their
prospects consume
it's like we don't we don't take it
serious
right but then because we don't take it
serious it makes it so
much harder on us which then takes out
the joy
yeah and you have to have fun with sales
it's hard enough y'all
have some fun with this because back you
know to work on that before
what won't change most people do like to
have a little bit of fun
and most people do like to have a
chuckle here or there
and most people do like to vent about
their problems and most
people do like to share things that they
enjoy
bring that into your sales process right
and so that and that's where i say like
you know sales we don't tend to take it
seriously but
even on the life side take it serious
y'all like take care of yourself
right like ask like am i really living
my best life right now
no learn how learn how
to get the most out of your life right
life is long and short
right like i don't like when people say
life is short
right like i got at least 50 more years
on this planet
you know how much i can do in 50 years
it'll be fun to watch buddy it'll be fun
to watch i'm happy to
you know got your digits to be able to
be connected as you
i go i might be a baker in 20 years i
don't know let's go
you know like so that that would be my
priority no you know what honestly
it's it's a solid it's a that's
especially the second piece too
right like it's a solid it's really
solid you're 100 right
on the sincerity piece but you're even
more right on the fun
piece right it's a it's even a hashtag
i've i've used before have fun on
purpose but on purpose
don't don't accidentally have fun oh wow
this was fun no
go have fun go do it the right thing
every day have fun on purpose that's
what we do man and when you can align
your passions that's where the magic
happens i'm with you
i'm with you on that yeah yeah solid
dude awesome all right so folks that
want to connect with you
where's the best place to find you so
you can find me on linkedin i'm at the
stupid connection limit so i can't
actually
connect you're only allowed 30 000
connections so you can do a follow
there um i have like my patreon group
that's where i do like more like
in-depth
trainings every month so like you know
hour-long training it's not just 1300
characters um so it's called inside
sales excellence on patreon
and then i have a podcast as well live
better sell better i'll have to have you
on it next my man we'll just swap this
up real quick and get you on there
but that's where people can find me i
don't have like twitter or snap or
instagram or anything like that so
find me on linkedin and on my podcast
baby all good man
katie dude this is great i really
appreciate you taking the time it's
always fun to connect with you and i
look forward to doing it again soon
oh yeah my man all right dude awesome
you